Read this first:
Do not continuously try the same attempted solution. If you find yourself toggling sticky / overflow / min-h-0 in the same places you already touched, stop and follow the audit + fixes below exactly.

What’s broken (based on my screenshots)

On mobile, the Review Question button becomes invisible/inaccessible.

On mobile, the Submit Answer bar jumps up and the bottom border of the card gets hidden as the group stretches past the viewable area.

Desktop behaves mostly right; mobile breaks the moment the viewport shrinks or the keyboard appears.

The cause is a combination of: wrong scroll container, a sticky footer inside an ancestor with overflow/transform, missing min-height: 0 on flex children, margins below the sticky footer, and the page-level footer overlaying content.

Phase 1 — One-time audit (10 minutes, no code changes yet)

Identify scroll containers

In DevTools, scroll the page and watch which element’s scrollTop changes. The messages list and the answers list should be the ones that scroll, not the entire card or the page.

Check ancestors of sticky bars

For both sticky footers (Review Question and Submit Answer), walk up the DOM and note any ancestor that has:

overflow: auto|scroll|hidden

transform, perspective, or will-change: transform (your card-flip-* wrappers!)

fixed heights like h-full without min-h-0

justify-between pushing children apart

Check margins/paddings below sticky

Confirm the sticky footer wrapper has no bottom margin. In my screenshot your sticky had mb-2. That must be removed everywhere.

Check z-index stacking

Confirm the sticky footers have a higher z-index than the page-level Prev/Next footer.

Confirm page footer behavior

The page-level Prev/Next footer must not cover card content. Either reserve space above it or structure the page so it sits outside the main scroll.

Only after you’ve completed this audit, make the following changes.

Phase 2 — Fix the structure (minimal, targeted changes)
A) Page layout (top-level)

Page should be three vertical regions:

Header (sticky top)

Main content area (scroll context)

Page footer with Prev/Next (sticky bottom)

Apply:

Page wrapper: flex flex-col min-h-[100dvh]

Main content area: flex-1 min-h-0 overflow-y-auto

This ensures the page doesn’t trap scrolling or cover content when the mobile keyboard opens.

Reserve space for the page footer: measure its height and set a CSS var on the main content area:

--page-footer-h = footerEl.offsetHeight

Add padding-bottom: var(--page-footer-h) to the main content area so content never hides behind the footer.

B) Card wrappers (remove transform/overflow obstacles)

The elements that contain sticky footers must not have an ancestor with overflow: hidden/auto/scroll or any transform/perspective.

Your card-flip-inner/front/back likely uses transforms. Move the sticky footers (Review/Submit bars) outside of those transform wrappers.

Keep the flip effect for the content area only.

New structure inside the card:

header

scrollable content (messages or answers) inside the flip container if needed

sticky action bar (outside the flip container; sibling, not child)

C) Inside each card: split into scroll + sticky

Card body wrapper: flex flex-col flex-1 min-h-0

Scrollable area (messages list or answers list):

flex-1 min-h-0 overflow-y-auto

padding-bottom: var(--action-bar-h) (see D)

Sticky action bar (composer + Review, or Submit):

position: sticky; bottom: 0; z-index: 20;

background: white; border-top: 1px solid var(--border);

No bottom margin (mb-0)

Add safe-area padding: padding-bottom: calc(12px + env(safe-area-inset-bottom))

D) Measure the sticky bar height (once, robustly)

Add a ResizeObserver on each sticky bar. On change, set --action-bar-h on its sibling scroll area:

scrollArea.style.setProperty('--action-bar-h', actionBar.offsetHeight + 'px')

This prevents the last item from hiding behind the sticky bar and keeps behavior stable on mobile when the keyboard toggles.

E) Kill the bottom gap for good

Remove every instance of bottom spacing on sticky wrappers and spacers after them:

Delete any mb-* on sticky containers (e.g., that mb-2 you still have).

Remove any spacer <div style="height: ..."> after the sticky section.

Replace justify-between with gap-y-* inside the column if you need spacing above the sticky bar.

F) Prev/Next footer (page-level)

Keep it as a sibling to the main content (not inside any card).

Give it position: sticky; bottom: 0; z-index: 30; so it’s always above page content.

Because of the padding you added on the main content (padding-bottom: var(--page-footer-h)), the card borders and sticky bars will never hide under it.

Phase 3 — Mobile/iOS specifics (the things that cause “jumps”)

Use dynamic viewport units at page level: min-h-[100dvh] (not 100vh).

Ensure the flex chain allows shrinking: any flex child that should shrink must have min-h-0.

Add html, body { height: 100%; overscroll-behavior: contain; }.

If any ancestor uses overflow-hidden just to clip rounded corners/shadows, wrap: keep clipping on the outer card, but put the sticky + scroll area in an inner wrapper without overflow.

Verify no ancestor of the sticky bars has transform, perspective, or backface-visibility: hidden. If you must keep transforms for flip animations, the sticky bar must live outside that transformed subtree.

Phase 4 — Acceptance checks (don’t stop until all are green)

On mobile:

Review Question is visible and tappable at all times after answering.

Submit Answer stays pinned to the bottom of the card; the list above it scrolls.

The bottom border of the card is always visible; no content or borders are hidden by the page footer.

Opening the keyboard does not cover the sticky bar; it re-measures and stays above the safe area.

On desktop:

Behavior matches current good state; no extra space appears below sticky bars.

DevTools verification:

The sticky wrappers show no computed margin-bottom.

The scroll containers show padding-bottom: var(--action-bar-h) with a non-zero value.

The page main content shows padding-bottom: var(--page-footer-h) with a non-zero value.

The sticky wrappers are not inside any element with overflow or transform.

z-index: sticky bars ≥ 20, page footer ≥ 30.

What not to do

Do not set fixed heights on cards or scroll areas.

Do not leave sticky bars inside transformed flip containers.

Do not add spacer divs or bottom margins to “make room.”

Do not keep tweaking the same classes without auditing the ancestor chain as described.

Minimal hints (Tailwind, apply where appropriate — keep code small)

Page wrapper: flex flex-col min-h-[100dvh]

Main area: flex-1 min-h-0 overflow-y-auto pb-[var(--page-footer-h)]

Card body: flex flex-col flex-1 min-h-0

Scroll area: flex-1 min-h-0 overflow-y-auto pb-[var(--action-bar-h)]

Sticky bar: sticky bottom-0 z-20 bg-white border-t p-3 md:p-4 mb-0

Page footer: sticky bottom-0 z-30

If you hit a wall, don’t re-apply the same patch. Re-run the audit, confirm the scroll container, check for transform/overflow ancestors, and fix the structure exactly as above.