Do this in order (no retries of the same tweak)

Page layout

Make the page three regions: Header / Main / Footer.

Footer (Prev/Next) = position: sticky; bottom: 0; z-index: 50.

Main = not the scroll container. Allow overflow to be visible.

Measure footer height once and set --page-footer-h on Main and the left sidebar; add padding-bottom: var(--page-footer-h) to both so the footer never covers content.

Left sidebar

Remove any z-index that can overlay the footer.

Keep padding-bottom: var(--page-footer-h) so the last items aren’t hidden.

QuestionCard (answers view)

Card body = two children only:

Scroll area with the stem + answer options.

Sticky Submit bar as a sibling below it.

The sticky bar must be outside any flip/transform wrappers.

Scroll area: flex:1 min-height:0 overflow-y:auto padding-bottom: var(--submit-bar-h).

Sticky bar: position: sticky; bottom:0; z-index:20; background:#fff; border-top:1px solid currentColor; margin-bottom:0; padding-bottom: calc(12px + env(safe-area-inset-bottom)).

Assistant/Review card (chat view)

Same pattern as above: messages scroll, action bar (composer + Review Question) is sticky at the bottom and not inside any transform/flip wrapper.

Messages: flex:1 min-height:0 overflow-y:auto padding-bottom: var(--review-bar-h).

Sticky bar: same sticky styles as Submit; no bottom margin.

Kill the footguns

Delete every spacer div below sticky bars.

Remove all mb-* on sticky wrappers.

Replace any parent justify-between with flex-col and a gap-*.

Ensure every flex child that must shrink uses min-height:0.

No ancestor of a sticky bar may have overflow: auto|hidden|scroll or any transform/perspective/will-change.

Measurements

Add a ResizeObserver for each sticky bar:

Set --submit-bar-h on the QuestionCard scroll area.

Set --review-bar-h on the chat messages list.

Set --page-footer-h on Main and the sidebar.

These variables must update on mount and resize.

Viewport sanity

Page wrapper uses min-height: 100dvh (not 100vh).

html, body { height:100%; overscroll-behavior: contain; }.

z-index sanity

Footer z = 50, card sticky bars z ≈ 20, sidebar/base content lower. No sidebar overlay on the footer.

Don’t do this

Don’t put sticky bars inside transform/flip containers.

Don’t set fixed heights to “make it fit.”

Don’t add spacer elements or bottom margins under sticky bars.

Don’t make the entire page the scroll container for cards.

Pass/fail checks (must all pass)

Mobile: Review and Submit bars are always visible and tappable; card bottom borders remain visible; keyboard doesn’t cover bars.

Desktop: Previous/Next are clickable; the sidebar never overlaps the footer.

Answers are visible; only the card’s scroll area scrolls.

DevTools: sticky wrappers show margin-bottom: 0; scroll areas have non-zero padding-bottom from the CSS vars; no ancestor of any sticky bar has overflow or transform.

Important: Do not keep reapplying the same sticky/overflow/min-h adjustments. If anything fails, stop and re-check the structure against the eight steps above.